# Fokker-Planck particle systems
This repository contains a collection of numerical examples implemented for our paper "Fokker-Planck particle systems for Bayesian inference: Computational approaches". We note that the code is free of use, however we do not take any responsibilities.

- The directory "2d_unimodal" contains the two dimensional unimodal example presented in section 4.1 of our paper. The main files are "FPPS.m" and "Langevin.m", while "Evaluation_FPPS.m" and "Evaluation_Langevin.m" are used to evaluate the experiments. The "reference_data.mat", generated by "reference_data_2d_unimodal.m", contains the data needed to reproduce the results presented in our paper.

- The directory "2d_bimodal" contains the two dimensional bimodal example presented in section 4.2 of our paper. Again the main files are "FPPS.m" and "Langevin.m", whereas "Evaluation_FPPS.m" and "Evaluation_Langevin.m" can be used to evaluate the experiments. To reproduce the results from our paper we again provide "reference_data.mat".

- The numerical example used to analyze the scalability of the Fokker--Planck particle system presented in section 4.3 of our paper is provided in the directory "scaling_dimension". Here, we have the two main files "main_comparison_meshsize.m" and "main_comparison_Nx.m" reproducing the plots presented in our paper.

- The last example presented in section 4.4 of our paper can be found in the directory "high_dim". In this directory we provide three main files: "FPPS.m", "Langevin.m" and "SMC.m". The files "Evaluation_FPPS.m" and "Evaluation_Langevin.m" can again be used to evaluate the experiments. Please note that "FPPS.m" and "Langevin.m" have to be executed for different choices of "M" to reproduce the results presented in our paper. The file "MCMC.m" runs the MCMC method to produce reference sample of the posterior distribution. Before evaluating the experiments this file has to be executed, too. We have generated the file "reference_data.mat" by "reference_data_high_dim.m" to provide the corresponding reference data in order to reproduce the results presented in our paper.

Finally, we note that own examples can easily be implemented by changing the function "h" in "reference_data_[...].m".
